---
title: "[LeetCode] 2462. Total Cost to Hire K"
date: 2022-11-08T00:53:08+08:00
tags: ["Leetcode"]
draft: false
Categories: Leetcode
author: "Rain Hu"
showToc: true
TocOpen: true
math: true
hidemeta: false
canonicalURL: "https://intervalrain.github.io/"
disableHLJS: true
disableShare: true
disableHLJS: false
hideSummary: false
searchHidden: false
ShowReadingTime: true
ShowBreadCrumbs: true
ShowPostNavLinks: true
ShowCodeCopyButtons: true
---
**2462. Total Cost to Hire K**
+ Hardness: \\(\color{orange}\textsf{Medium}\\)
+ Ralated Topics: `Array`、`Two Pointer`、`Heap (Priority Queue)`、`Simulation`
+ \\(\color{blue}\textsf{Weekly Contest 318}\\)
---
### 一、題目
You are given a **0-indexed** integer array `costs` where `costs[i]` is the cost of hiring the `ith` worker.
You are also given two integers `k` and `candidates`. We want to hire exactly `k` workers according to the following rules:
+ You will run `k` sessions and hire exactly one worker in each session.
+ In each hiring session, choose the worker with the lowest cost from either the first `candidates` workers or the last `candidates` workers. Break the tie by the smallest index.
    + For example, if `costs = [3,2,7,7,1,2]` and `candidates = 2`, then in the first hiring session, we will choose the `4th` worker because they have the lowest cost `[3,2,7,7,1,2]`.
    + In the second hiring session, we will choose `1st` worker because they have the same lowest cost as `4th` worker but they have the smallest index `[3,2,7,7,2]`. Please note that the indexing may be changed in the process.
+ If there are fewer than candidates workers remaining, choose the worker with the lowest cost among them. Break the tie by the smallest index.
+ A worker can only be chosen once.
Return *the total cost to hire exactly* `k` *workers*.

**Example 1:**  
+ **Input:** costs = [17,12,10,2,7,2,11,20,8], k = 3, candidates = 4
+ **Output:** 11
+ **Explanation:** We hire 3 workers in total. The total cost is initially 0.  
- In the first hiring round we choose the worker from [17,12,10,2,7,2,11,20,8]. The lowest cost is 2, and we break the tie by the smallest index, which is 3. The total cost = 0 + 2 = 2.  
- In the second hiring round we choose the worker from [17,12,10,7,2,11,20,8]. The lowest cost is 2 (index 4). The total cost = 2 + 2 = 4.  
- In the third hiring round we choose the worker from [17,12,10,7,11,20,8]. The lowest cost is 7 (index 3). The total cost = 4 + 7 = 11. Notice that the worker with index 3 was common in the first and last four workers.  
The total hiring cost is 11.  

**Example 2:**
+ **Input:** costs = [1,2,4,1], k = 3, candidates = 3
+ **Output:** 4
+ **Explanation:** We hire 3 workers in total. The total cost is initially 0.  
- In the first hiring round we choose the worker from [1,2,4,1]. The lowest cost is 1, and we break the tie by the smallest index, which is 0. The total cost = 0 + 1 = 1. Notice that workers with index 1 and 2 are common in the first and last 3 workers.  
- In the second hiring round we choose the worker from [2,4,1]. The lowest cost is 1 (index 2). The total cost = 1 + 1 = 2.  
- In the third hiring round there are less than three candidates. We choose the worker from the remaining workers [2,4]. The lowest cost is 2 (index 0). The total cost = 2 + 2 = 4.  
The total hiring cost is 4.  

**Constraints:**
+ `1 <= costs.length <= 10^5`
+ `1 <= costs[i] <= 10^5`
+ `1 <= k, candidates <= costs.length`
---

### 二、分析
+ 將數組左右兩邊 `candidates` 長度的數字加入各別的 `min heap` 中，按順序比較兩個 `min heap`，將小的加入和中。
+ 注意當從 `min heap` 中取值之後，要移動指針，將新的值放入 `min heap`，除非當左右指針相撞(代表整個數組都在 `candidate` 的範圍內)。

### 三、解題
#### 1. Heap (Priority Queue)
+ Time complexity: \\(O(n)\\)
+ Space complexity: \\(O(n)\\)
```C++
long long totalCost(vector<int>& costs, int k, int candidates) {
    priority_queue<int, vector<int>, greater<int>> front, end;  // 宣告兩個 min heap
    long long res = 0;
    int cnt = 0;
    int i = 0, j = costs.size()-1;
    front.push(INT_MAX);                                        // 當 min heap 為空時，必定傳回另一個 min heap 的值
    end.push(INT_MAX);
    while (i <= j && cnt < candidates) {
        front.push(costs[i++]);                                 // 左指針移動
        if (i <= j) end.push(costs[j--]);                       // 右指針移動，左右指針相撞，代表已經包含整個數組
        cnt++;
    }
    while (k--) {                                               // 取 k 個數字
        if (front.top() <= end.top()) {
            res += front.top();
            front.pop();
            if (i <= j) front.push(costs[i++]);                 // 左右指針相撞，不再加入新的值
        } else {
            res += end.top();
            end.pop();
            if (i <= j) end.push(costs[j--]);                   // 左右指針相撞，不再加入新的值
        }
    }
    return res;
}
```
[回目錄 Catalog](/leetcode)