---
title: "[LeetCode] 2486. Accept Characters to String to Make Subsequence"
date: 2022-11-27T21:04:50+08:00
tags: ["Leetcode"]
draft: false
Categories: Leetcode
author: "Rain Hu"
showToc: true
TocOpen: true
math: true
hidemeta: false
canonicalURL: "https://intervalrain.github.io/"
disableHLJS: true
disableShare: true
disableHLJS: false
hideSummary: false
searchHidden: false
ShowReadingTime: true
ShowBreadCrumbs: true
ShowPostNavLinks: true
ShowCodeCopyButtons: true
---
**2486. Accept Characters to String to Make Subsequence**
+ Hardness: \\(\color{orange}\textsf{Medium}\\)
+ Ralated Topics: `Two Pointer`、`String`、`Greedy`
+ \\(\color{blue}\textsf{Weekly Contest 321}\\)
---
### 一、題目
+ You are given two strings `s` and `t` consisting of only lowercase English letters.
Return *the minimum number of characters that need to be appended to the end of `s` so that `t` becomes a ***subsequence*** of `s`.*

A **subsequence** is a string that can be derived from another string by deleting some or no characters without changing the order of the remaining characters.

**Example 1:**  
+ **Input:** s = "coaching", t = "coding"
+ **Output:** 4
+ **Explanation:** Append the characters "ding" to the end of s so that s = "coachingding".  
Now, t is a subsequence of s ("coachingding").  
It can be shown that appending any 3 characters to the end of s will never make t a subsequence.  

**Example 2:**
+ **Input:** s = "abcde", t = "a"
+ **Output:** 0
+ **Explanation:** t is already a subsequence of s ("abcde").

**Example 3:**
+ **Input:** s = "z", t = "abcde"
+ **Output:** 5
+ **Explanation:** Append the characters "abcde" to the end of s so that s = "zabcde".
Now, t is a subsequence of s ("zabcde").
It can be shown that appending any 4 characters to the end of s will never make t a subsequence.

**Constraints:**
+ `1 <= s.length, t.length <= 10^5`
+ `s` and `t` consist only of lowercase English letters.
---

### 二、分析
+ 這一題是簡單的 `Two Pointer`，當 `s[i] == t[j]` 時，`j++`。`i` 指標走到盡頭時，`t` 剩餘多少字元即為 `s` 需要增加的字元。

### 三、解題
#### 1. Two Pointer
+ Time complexity: \\(O(n)\\)
+ Space complexity: \\(O(1)\\)
```C++
int appendCharacters(string s, string t) {
    int i = 0, j = 0;
    for (; i < s.length(); i++) {
        if (s[i] == t[j]) j++;
        if (j == t.length()) return 0;
    }
    return t.length()-j;
}
```
[回目錄 Catalog](/leetcode)